MITRE 
https://attack.mitre.org/groups/
Maltego. Maltego is a product of Paterva
	data in - can manually enter or, import xls /csv (one ex. copy and paste xls cells into graph-then run 	transforms on them), or run transforms
		Transform- (mine data with trnsform): can add thrid party add-ons (threat intel transforms)
  			create entity(movie mad max)- right click and use movie transform(w/ API key) and this will auto search and will add aditinal info by
			linking it to the entity

spiderfoot
MISP (malware infor and sharing platform)
https://spyse.com/  (internet assets registry)
https://www.geocreepy.com/    Creepy is an open-source Geolocation intelligence tool
MineMeld
	MineMeld is a threat intelligence processing tool that extracts indicators from various sources and compiles the indicators into multiple formats compatible with
	AutoFocus, the Palo Alto Networks® next-generation firewall, and other security and information event management (SIEM) platforms. Introduction to MineMeld.

other?:
	procmon + pcap (into procdot) gives you a map pplop visual

Diamond Model is an approach to conducting intelligence on network intrusion events. The model gets its name (and shape) from the four core interconnected elements that 
comprise any event – adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim

Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™)  
	This document provides a brief introduction to Version 5.0 of the Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™) Language, an overview of the MAEC 
	data models, a 	discussion of top-level objects, and an example MAEC Package.

STIX
Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX™) is a structured language for describing cyber threat information so it can be shared, stored, and analyzed in a consistent
manner. STIX uses the CybOX Language to describe cyber observables. The CybOX schema is natively imported and used within STIX to characterize system and network events and 
behaviors observed within the operational cyber domain or observable patterns for use within cyber indicators.

TAXII
Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (TAXII™) is the main transport mechanism for cyber threat information represented in STIX. Through the use of TAXII
services, organizations can share cyber threat information in a secure and automated manner. TAXII uses STIX to represent cyber threat information in a standardized and 
structured manner, and STIX uses CybOX to represent cyber observables.

MAEC	(document malware behavior)
Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™) is a standardized language for encoding and communicating high-fidelity information about malware based upon 
attributes such as behaviors, artifacts, and attack patterns. MAEC uses the CybOX Language to describe cyber observables. The CybOX schema is imported and used within
MAEC to characterize malware-related system and network events and behaviors observed within the operational cyber domain.

CAPEC	(identify attack patterns)
Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification (CAPEC™) is a publicly available, community-developed list of common attack patterns along with a comprehensive schema 
and classification taxonomy. The CybOX schema is imported and used within CAPEC to characterize system and network events and behaviors observed within the operational cyber 
domain.

----------------------------

Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX™) STIX is a frame-work, language and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat intelligenc
	STIX file is an XML file saved in the Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX) format
STIX is a framework used to exchange Cyber Threat Intellegience 

A TAXII server is what sends or reveices stix packages

Cyber Observable eXpression (CybOX™) 
	is a stadarization language that allows you to store and exchange any observable malicious events in a Relational database something like SQL


ATT&Ck ( adversary tactics techniques and Common Knowledge)

 Computer Incident Response Center Luxembourg (CIRCL) i
 Information Sharing and Analysis Centers
cyber analytics repository
https://attack.mitre.org/groups/
base-16 numbering system (hex)

CAR - Cyber Analytics Repository 
