-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ISAC  "Information Sharing and Analysis Center"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs)

  Are used to share and exchange various Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) to obtain threat intelligence. IOCs can include MD5s,
  IPs, YARA rules, and more. There are many ISACs that can be used to gather threat intelligence including AlienVault OTX, Threat Connect, and MISP.

 Before diving in, let's briefly discuss a few terms that you will often hear when dealing with the framework, threat intelligence, etc.

APT is an acronym for Advanced Persistent Threat. This can be considered a team/group (threat group), or even country (nation-state group), that engages in long-term attacks
against organizations and/or countries. The term 'advanced' can be misleading as it will tend to cause us to believe that each APT group all have some super-weapon, e.i. a 
zero-day exploit, that they use. That is not the case. As we will see a bit later, the techniques these APT groups use are quite common and can be detected with the right
implementations in place. You can view FireEye's current list of APT groups here.  

TTP is an acronym for Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures, but what does each of these terms mean?

The Tactic is the adversary's goal or objective.
The Technique is how the adversary achieves the goal or objective.
The Procedure is how the technique is executed.
TI is an acronym for Threat Intelligence. Threat Intelligence is an overarching term for all collected information on adversaries and TTPs. You will also commonly hear
CTI or Cyber Threat Intelligence which is just another way of saying Threat Intelligence.

IOCs is an acronym for Indicators of Compromise, the indicators for malware and adversary groups. Indicators can include file hashes, IPs, names, etc.
 
Threat Intelligence, also known as TI and Cyber Threat Intelligence also known as, CTI, is used to provide information about the threat landscape specifically adversaries and 
their TTPs. Typically CTI revolves around APT groups and/or other threats, these can be well-known groups or up and coming new threats.

Data must be analyzed to be considered threat intelligence. Once analyzed and actionable, then it becomes threat intelligence. The data needs context around to become intel.

CTI is a precautionary measure that companies use or contribute to so that other corporations do not get hit with the same attacks. Of course, adversaries change their TTPs 
all the time so the TI landscape is constantly changing.

Vendors and corporations will sometimes share their collected CTI in what are called ISACs or Information Sharing and Analysis Centers. ISACs collect various indicators of 
an adversary that other corporations can use as a precaution against adversaries.

If you are not familiar with adversaries and their TTPs I would suggest checking out the following resources.

APT Groups and Operations
Tryhackme Mitre Room
FireEye APT Report
Threat Intelligence is also broken up into three different types.

Strategic
	Assist senior management make informed decisions specifically about the security budget and strategies.

Tactical
	Interacts with the TTPs and attack models to identify adversary attack patterns.

Operational
	Interact with IOCs and how the adversaries operationalize 
According to the National Council of ISACs, "Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) are member-driven organizations, delivering all-hazards threat and mitigation
information to asset owners and operators". ISACs can be community-centered or vendor-specific. ISACs include CTI from threat actors as well as mitigation information in the 
form of IOCs, YARA rules, etc. ISACs maintain situational awareness by sharing and collaborating to maintain CTI, through a National Council of ISACs.

You can view a list of member ISACs here: https://www.nationalisacs.org/member-isacs.

We will be focusing on ISACs as they pertain to cybersecurity and cyber threat intelligence; however, ISACs can be utilized for more than just cybersecurity.

Below is a list of ISACs that can help a blue team we will only be showcasing a few in this room.

US-CERT
AlienVault OTX
ThreatConnect
MISP
This room will specifically focus on AlienVault OTX and ThreatConnect; however, there are many more ISACs that can be used to gather threat intelligence. I encourage you 
to go out and research others on your own to get a good feeling for what you like and what various ISACs can offer.	
