-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ISAC  "Information Sharing and Analysis Center"                 https://www.nationalisacs.org/member-isacs
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs)

  	Are used to share and exchange various Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) to obtain threat intelligence. IOCs can include MD5s,
  	IPs, YARA rules, and more. There are many ISACs that can be used to gather threat intelligence including AlienVault OTX, Threat Connect, and MISP.

TTP is an acronym for Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures, but what does each of these terms mean?
		The Tactic is the adversary's goal or objective.
		The Technique is how the adversary achieves the goal or objective.
		The Procedure is how the technique is executed.

IOCs is an acronym for Indicators of Compromise, the indicators for malware and adversary groups. Indicators can include file hashes, IPs, names, etc.
 
Threat Intelligence, aka TI aka Cyber Threat Intelligence(CTI) is used to provide information about the threat landscape specifically adversaries and 
their TTPs. Typically CTI revolves around APT groups and/or other threats, these can be well-known groups or up and coming new threats!

	Data must be analyzed to be considered threat intelligence. 
	Once analyzed and actionable, then it becomes threat intelligence. 
	The data needs context around to become intel.

CTI is a precautionary measure that companies use so that other corporations do not get hit with the same attacks. But Adversaries change their TTPs all the time so 
the TI landscape is constantly changing.

Vendors and corporations will sometimes share their collected CTI in what are called ISACs or Information Sharing and Analysis Centers. ISACs collect various indicators of 
an adversary that other corporations can use as a precaution against adversaries.

	Strategic
	Assist senior management make informed decisions specifically about the security budget and strategies.

	Tactical
	Interacts with the TTPs and attack models to identify adversary attack patterns.

	Operational
	Interact with IOCs and how the adversaries operationalize 
	
We will be focusing on ISACs as they pertain to cybersecurity and cyber threat intelligence; however, ISACs can be utilized for more than just cybersecurity.

Below is a list of ISACs that can help a blue team:
	US-CERT
	AlienVault OTX
	ThreatConnect
	MISP

other?:
	procmon + pcap (into procdot) gives you a map pplop visual

Diamond Model is an approach to conducting intelligence on network intrusion events. The model gets its name (and shape) from the four core interconnected elements that 
comprise any event – adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim

Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™)  
	This document provides a brief introduction to Version 5.0 of the Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™) Language, an overview of the MAEC 
	data models, a 	discussion of top-level objects, and an example MAEC Package.

STIX
Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX™) is a structured language for describing cyber threat information so it can be shared, stored, and analyzed in a consistent
manner. STIX uses the CybOX Language to describe cyber observables. The CybOX schema is natively imported and used within STIX to characterize system and network events and 
behaviors observed within the operational cyber domain or observable patterns for use within cyber indicators.

TAXII
Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (TAXII™) is the main transport mechanism for cyber threat information represented in STIX. Through the use of TAXII
services, organizations can share cyber threat information in a secure and automated manner. TAXII uses STIX to represent cyber threat information in a standardized and 
structured manner, and STIX uses CybOX to represent cyber observables.

MAEC	(document malware behavior)
Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™) is a standardized language for encoding and communicating high-fidelity information about malware based upon 
attributes such as behaviors, artifacts, and attack patterns. MAEC uses the CybOX Language to describe cyber observables. The CybOX schema is imported and used within
MAEC to characterize malware-related system and network events and behaviors observed within the operational cyber domain.

CAPEC	(identify attack patterns)
Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification (CAPEC™) is a publicly available, community-developed list of common attack patterns along with a comprehensive schema 
and classification taxonomy. The CybOX schema is imported and used within CAPEC to characterize system and network events and behaviors observed within the operational cyber 
domain.

----------------------------

Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX™) STIX is a frame-work, language and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat intelligenc
	STIX file is an XML file saved in the Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX) format
STIX is a framework used to exchange Cyber Threat Intellegience 

A TAXII server is what sends or reveices stix packages

Cyber Observable eXpression (CybOX™) 
	is a stadarization language that allows you to store and exchange any observable malicious events in a Relational database something like SQL

